# The Impact and Cost of Increasing Access to Sexual and Reproductive Health Care in Low- and Middle-Income Countries (LMICs)
This two-part project analyzed data from the Adding it Up (2019) project, which allows for comparison of important demographic and reproductive health characteristics of Low- and Middle-Income Countries (LMICs) and for generation of estimates of the cost and value of reproductive health care services.  The data is focused on contraceptive services, pregnancy-related and newborn care, and the treatment of curable STIs for women ages 15 through 49. Cost estimates of the dollar amount per capita that a country would need to invest on top of current spending to ensure all women and girls could access the ideal level of sexual and reproductive health care services were generated. Similarly, estimates were calculated that demonstrate how much a country’s maternal mortality rate could be reduced if all care needs for women and girls were met.  

## Part 1: Policy Memo & R Data Visualizations
The first part of the project involved analyzing and visualizing the Adding it Up data and incorporating the findings into a policy memo outlining what opportunities exist for LMICs to substantially reduce maternal mortality rates by increasing investments in sexual and reproductive health service access. The findings demonstrated that if all sexual and reproductive health care needs were met for girls and women ages 15 through 49, most LMICs would see substantial reductions in maternal mortality rates per 100,000 live births. The largest reductions in MMR would be yielded in Latin America and the Caribbean, and Oceania, with median MMR reductions of 33 and 30 percent respectively. To achieve the scenario in which all care needs are met, most countries would require a less than $10 per capita investment in sexual and reproductive health care service access. Policy recommendations included to target investments to countries in which low-cost (per capita) reproductive health interventions would result in high maternal mortality rate reductions, to prioritize investments in nations in which maternal mortality rates are highest, and to promote the adoption of universal health coverage policies that ensure all individuals can afford needed health care services. 

## Part 2: Tableau Data Story
The second part of the project involved creating a Tableau story board to highlight key findings from the data analysis. The produced data story demonstrated that if all girls and women ages 15 through 49 could access needed sexual and reproductive health care, most LMICs would significantly reduce maternal mortality rates (MMRs). The most considerable reductions in MMR could be yielded in Southern and Eastern Africa, the Caribbean, and Central America, with median MMR reductions between 30 and 37 percent. Achieving the scenario where all care needs are met would require a less than $10 per capita investment in sexual and reproductive health care service access.

## Data Source: 
Sully et al. Adding It Up: Investing in Sexual and Reproductive Health 2019 - All Women Dataset. New York: Guttmacher Institute, 2021.

